# Abstraction
There are three different kinds of abstraction used in the Java programming language: _procedural_ abstraction, _data_ abstraction and _iteration_ abstraction. [- (1) -](https://edge.edx.org/xblock/block-v1:UBC+CPSC210+all+type@vertical+block@a711820e15164786ac5b137af8127575?exam_access=&jumpToId&preview=0&recheck_access=1&show_bookmark=0&show_title=0&view=student_view#FN1) In this reading, we will focus on what a data abstraction is and how it is used in Java. As our means of describing data abstraction will rely on the use of procedural abstraction, this reading will cover both of these concepts (despite the reading's title!). We will look at iteration abstraction later in the course.


# Data Abstraction
When we write object-oriented software, the primary abstraction approach used to support domain modeling is data abstraction. A data abstraction enables the description of a data object [- (2) -](https://edge.edx.org/xblock/block-v1:UBC+CPSC210+all+type@vertical+block@a711820e15164786ac5b137af8127575?exam_access=&jumpToId&preview=0&recheck_access=1&show_bookmark=0&show_title=0&view=student_view#FN2) in terms of how the object behaves rather than the details of how the data is represented. This abstraction enables other parts of the software to use a data object without knowing all of the details about how the data object is represented. If the data object’s representation changes, the software dependent upon the object need not change.

Consider the software system mentioned above to help manage the Vancouver Aquarium. Presumably, such a system would need to include support for determining the feeding schedules of various animals and notifying personnel when a feeding is due. Each kind of animal will have unique needs for feeding: dolphins are fed different food at different times than sloths. However, with respect to feeding, the scheduling software can treat all animals similarly, this software just needs to determine from an animal what it can eat and when it should next be fed. The system should also record for the animal what it was fed as this may effect when the animal is next fed.

The code below shows the beginnings of a data abstraction _specification_ for an animal in the feeding scheduling software system. [- (3) -](https://edge.edx.org/xblock/block-v1:UBC+CPSC210+all+type@vertical+block@a711820e15164786ac5b137af8127575?exam_access=&jumpToId&preview=0&recheck_access=1&show_bookmark=0&show_title=0&view=student_view#FN3) A specification provides a definition for the abstraction of interest. For simplicity, we will specify data abstractions in this course using Java constructs and stylized comments, similar to [1]. In the coming sections, we will refine this specification to be more complete and consider how the specification may be implemented in Java.

As you read this chapter, be prepared to not understand all of what is happening in the code presented. The reading is meant to help point out those concepts you should be starting to try to understand. Through examples in readings, lectures and labs, we are incrementally going to introduce you to more and more of the Java programming language. You are expected to learn the details of each part we introduce on your own and we will be pointing out resources to help guide you in this self-directed learning. When you get stuck in your self-directed learning, you should not hesitate to ask questions of your instructors, TAs and on the discussion board. We are here to help guide you in how to learn a language so you can carry these skills forward to the next programming language you encounter.

