## Visual Mapping

There is another organizing principle. This is that the outside world is mapped onto the brain in a point-to-point fashion. For example, in the primary somatosensory area (S1) (Figure 6) there is a map of the body with different parts responding when the hands, body, or legs are touched. Similarly, in the primary visual cortex (V1) (Figure 6) there is a ‘retinotopic’ map. What this means is that the retina is mapped onto the cortex such that the location of the activity in the cortex depends on which part of the retina is stimulated by light.

However, these maps are distorted. In the case of the somatic map the distortion relates not to the size of the different parts of the body but to their relative importance. For example, because we use our hands for manipulating objects, much more tissue is devoted to the hand than to the foot. In the case of the primary visual cortex, more tissue is devoted to central than peripheral vision. In the centre of the eye there is a pit or fovea and it is here that there is the greatest density of light receptors. When we inspect an object it is with the fovea that we focus our gaze.

One way of demonstrating the map in the primary visual cortex is to stimulate the neurons artificially. Alan Cowey and Vincent Walsh have done this by imposing magnetic pulses by means of a metal coil on the scalp, a technique called ‘transcranial magnetic brain stimulation’ (TMS). The method may appear heroic, but as far as we know it is harmless. The effect of stimulating the visual cortex is that observers report seeing flashes of light or ‘phosphenes’ and the apparent location of the phosphenes differs depending on where the stimulation is applied on the scalp. Some people see these phosphenes when they have a migraine.